# CP1404 Assignment 2 - Movies to Watch 2.0 by Trijeet Bhandula

A Python project with GUI and Console programs that (re)use classes to manage a list of *Movies to Watch*.

# Project Reflection

## 1. How long did the entire project (assignment 2) take you?

### Estimate:

25 Hours

### Actual:

44 hours

I completed this assignment in a week, by dedicating my major time towards this assignment.

## 2. What are you most satisfied with?

I am alot satisfied with the progressive growth in the knowledge and way of handling programming problems. I encountered
alot of errors while doing this assignment, but the guidance given by mentors, tutors and lecturers satisfied me the
most. While the pre-recorded lecture and supporting materials provided throughout the subject helped me to clear the
basics of programming assignment and helped me to understand the important patterns of coding.

## 3. What are you least satisfied with?

I am least satisfied with the way I managed my time. As it became really hard to complete this assignment with the other
subjects in a short period of time. While the kivy I learned from pre-recorded lectures and meetups was not clear. So I
watched the pre-recorded lectures and meetups again to build the understanding of kivy from the basics. I was least
satisfied with it because I have to spent alot of time to go through kivy and classes again before starting the
assignment.

## 4. What worked well in your development process?

In my development process, the slow and steady process of developing the assignment worked well for me. The progressive
growth to deal with different levels of problem, developed me to think differently towards the problem to find the best
solution. While I tried to make incremental progress towards the assignment, by constructing different classes and by
using them at different places to avoid rewriting the same thing again and again. By using classes to rewrite
Assignment-1 developed a clear idea, about using the classes in an effective manner.

## 5. What about your process could be improved the next time you do a project like this?

In the process of doing such projects, I would like to do better time management and better planning for the project. As
it got really difficult to complete the assignment on time while working on other subjects as well. Before starting
these types of projects, I would also like to clear out my basics of the topics which are related to the Assignment.
Because I had to revisit the pre-recorded lectures and extra materials to clear out things, which took alot extra time
than expected. I would also try to get feedbacks on my incremental growth of these types of projects, from the mentors
and tutors. This will help me to improve my coding methods and will lead me in the right direction for the project.

## 6. Describe what learning resources you used and how you used them.

The learning resources that were helpful, and I used were the pre-recorded lectures and meetups recording. To solve the
doubts and many types of errors, I re-watched these recordings to get better understanding of the topics and to clear
out my basics. While the important links provided throughout the subject, and specially in the assignment pdf helped me
to follow the best patterns to use classes and kivy. The kivy demo folder was one of the most important and useful
resource that I used alot. As it helped me to understand how to use different types of kivy method to improve the
efficiency and look of the GUI.

## 7. Describe the main challenges or obstacles you faced and how you overcame them.

The main challenges I faced while developing the Assignment was, I was not much familiar with kivy, when I started my
assignment. So I had to spend alot of time on watching the pre-recorded lectures to understand the basics of kivy. While
I was practicing many things for the first time like Spinner for getting a drop-down menu, changing colors to display
watched and unwatched movies. And while developing all these things in the Assignment, I encountered alot of errors. I
tried to understand the reason of errors, by spending hours on figuring out the problems in the code. Sometimes, even
after spending alot of time, when I was not able to understand the reason of errors. I gained help from mentors and
tutors who guided me towards the right way by sharing examples which were similar to the assignment. On comparing my
code with the similar programs, I tried to figure out the reason of errors. These all things helped me to overcome the
challenges and obstacles.

## 8. Briefly describe your experience using classes and if/how they improved your code.

When I started using classes, I did not find it useful. And I was unaware of the ways to use it efficiently. But as I
progressed through the practicals and Assignment. I understood the uses of classes and how it can save alot of time and
efforts by just importing the methods. Sometimes it was difficult to understand how to use the variables in the class,
so that we don't need to define it again. But at the end, it became really easy and useful resource.

I also developed the best way of defining classes and using them by understanding the concepts of Single Responsibility
Principle(SRP), Don't Repeat Yourself(DRY) and many more. While using classes in different programs, I understand why
SRP is so important. The use of classes also made the code neat and more understandable. While it was easy to jump to
the reference point of the classes by just clicking on the methods and class. All these experiences of using classes
enhanced my way of coding and made me a better programmer.

